# School-Timetable


This code allows students to input their school timetable into Alexa by just speaking and then while packing their bags, can ask Alexa what lessons they have on the day or the next.

The first lines of code imports modules. The time modules allow the 'localtime' variable to work. The module Boto3 is the Amazon Web Services Software Development Kit for Python, which allows me to write software that makes use of the service Amazon S3. Then JSON module imports the front end language that Alexa uses. Then we created a function called save to bucket which stores the data of the users and saves them in Amazon's servers. The next function is where the data is loaded back when they are needed.  Next, variables are created such as the skill name and the help message that will be outputted by Alexa.
The function 'lambda_handler' is the app entry point.  This checks the application Id and if it does not equal to the skill Id, they get an error saying "Invalid Application ID". The next lines of codes launch the Alexa and end the session using the functions.

The next lines of codes are the response handlers. We created a variable for the response called intent_name. This variable is assigned to the list request. The next lines of codes process the intents. If "Set Monday" is inputted to the intent_name, it returns the function set_monday which we explain later. This section of code is the same for every other day, with the 'elif' function, only the response and the assigned value differs. Furthermore, if the variable intent_name and "Today" are assigned to each other, it returns the get_today function which is explained later. The same also happens if "Tomorrow" is assigned to the intent_name variable, but it returns the get_tomorrow function. If none of those words are assigned, the function else returns the get_help_response function outputs the help message.  

Next, the get_today function has the local time variable which means it can check the date and the time of the current day. Then the 'if' statement and 'in' statement check if the word "Mon is in the 'localtime' variable, it will then examine if the word "monday" is in the timetable, it will print out "Your lessons for Monday are " plus the timetable for Monday as 'speechOutput'. If the user has not inputted something for Monday, using the else statement, tell Alexa to say that there are no lessons for Monday. This is repeated for every day. At the end of the get_today function, 'cardcontent' variable is assigned to 'speechOutput'  and the response variable is returned.

The 'get_tomorrow' function is similar to the get_today function but, this function checks the current day, and then prints out the next day e.g. if "Sun" is present in the 'localtime' variable, it prints out Monday's timetable.

At line 191, the functions for inputting the user's timetable happens. In the 'set_monday' function, the variable timetable is assigned to the 'load_from_bucket' function which collects the user Id. The "timetable['monday']" variable is assigned to the intent of Monday.  Speech output is then assigned to "I have set Monday to " plus the timetable. Then the response is returned. This happens for all days and functions are created for each.

The last part before the 'Speech response handlers' are from the Alexa example. We did change the boolean at the end of the function 'get_help_response' and 'get_launch_response' to True. The Speech response handlers are from the example. These lines makes it possible for the Alexa to speak and to hear us on the wake up call.
